And now we're gonna actually dive into the
repository start to get familiar with some
of these tools.
And so this is the sort of
workshop home base for today.
It's under my GitHub,
mattdesl/workshop-webgl-glsl.
And so if we open it up, mostly this
repo is just a collection of resources,
collection links.
You don't have to clone this repo,
there's not much that you're gonna gain by
cloning this repo and
trying to run things locally here.
We're gonna start to work locally more
in our desktop or something like that,
just starting from scratch rather
than starting from a cloned repo.
But it goes through some guides, so
if you're not comfortable yet with command
line, you can always go through this
guide and just sort of refresh yourself.
It also includes some sort of
Quick Start commands that we're
going to be using here and
there just to sort of use as a review.
Another intro is to note in npm, so
if you haven't used Node and npm before,
we're gonna be using
that a fair bit today.
You wanna make sure that you have
recent version of both so version 8 or
above of Node, version 6 and above of npm.
Another thing that comes up quite often
is when we try to install some modules,
sometimes we're gonna get this
little error that will pop up,
especially if you've just installed Node,
you might see some sort of access errors.
And in this guide, there's a few
suggestions on how to troubleshoot that.
So if you do run into that during
the workshop, to check out this guide,
go to the troubleshooting, and
maybe try to follow some of those steps.
There's also a little
intro to Canvas sketch and
we'll be talking a bit more about
Canvas sketch throughout the day.
But for those who have never
heard of it or never used it,
the main purpose is right here.
The main idea of Canvas sketch is to set
up our work in a consistent structure so
that all the demos are gonna be
really easy to reason about.
We can say, okay,
this is where the renderings happen,
this is where the setup's happening.
This is where the settings for
the dimensions and the frame rate and
those kind of things is gonna happen.
It also allows us to do
required statements from npm.
And it includes support for GLSL,
which is gonna be really important today.
And then also, it's really good for
exporting PNGs and MP4s and
GIFs and things like that.
And so if you've already got it installed,
I would suggest reinstalling it because
I've made some updates in the last week or
two that you might not have.
And you can reinstall it here as we're
talking or we'll have some time to
go through and actually install
these dependencies as well.
But if you want,
you can start reinstalling it
now might take a few minutes.
Another guide here would
be the GLSL syntax.
This will be here as sort of a cheat
sheet so we can refer to this later, but
we don't need to worry
about that right now.
Once we learn about GLSL and some of
the syntax, we can start to learn about
glsify, which is gonna allow us to
bring in modules of code from npm and
use those directly in our shaders
which is really powerful.
Way of doing things like noise functions
and randomness within our shaders.
And so
you'll also see a lot of other links.
One of the things I'm gonna be
walking through this morning is this
interactive book.
It's kind of like a guidebook, but
it's also mostly just slides for
me to show certain concepts.
And so it's these fullscreen slides and
I'll pull them up on the screen here,
I'll walk them through.
But you can walk through this guidebook
on your own laptop as I'm explaining it.
And you can work with these interactive
demos yourself and just try and
understand interactively how
these concepts come together.
And then there's tons of demos, so
there's a few different types of demos.
There's some demos on glitch so for
example, here's a Canvas sketch demo.
This is the most basic thing we can
do with Canvas sketch is just to draw
a rectangle, and
this is all using Canvas 2D.
So if you haven't used Canvas sketch,
you might wanna just pop this open and
try to wrap your head around this.
I'll be talking a bit more about how
this works and the idea of this, but
this is the bare bones Canvas 2D version.
But we're gonna be using Canvas
sketch more for, for three js demos.
So this other link here,
this is gonna show us quite a few
different demos around three js.
And the nice thing here is because
this is using glitch, you can open
up any of these links here and then you'll
be able to see the code, see it running.
So let's say you open up
a link like this and glitch,
you can then click the Show button and
click Next the code and all of a sudden
you can have something that should
show on the right here once it loads.
There we go.
So yeah, you can click Show next
to the code or in a new window and
then you can also remix
this on your own account.
So you can just click the link at
the top left remix projects or
there might be a button here to remix
the project and you can edit it, tweak it.
We're gonna be mostly using
this as a sort of reference, so
it'll be there if you need to remind
yourself of how to do certain things.
It'll be here as the way of copy paste
some certain functionality into our
own work.
Occasionally, I'll go in and I'll actually
edit some of these files, but mostly,
I'd like to work with the local code.
So stuff that's running through terminal,
stuff that's running through Canvas
sketch locally, because that will allow us
to do things like exporting PNGs and MP4s.
You can't really do that on the web so
easily.
And it'll also allow us to import things
from npm, which we can't really do here.
But yeah, these are some of the demos,
we'll sort of walk through them as we go.
We might not get through each and
every single one individually, but some of
the concepts we're gonna be talking about,
we'll cover many of these types of things.
So we'll hopefully get
through almost all of it.
There's some other demos here in the repo,
and these are again, more reference.
So this is here as a reference, but
we're gonna be trying to create
some of these from scratch.
In the tools and prerequisites section,
you can see this link.
See here on how to install it,
it’s also the same link up here,
intro to Canvas sketch.
And then running locally are Quick Start.
There we go, running locally
inside the Canvas sketch guide.
And so,
if you’re lost you can refer to this.
But let’s try and create a very bare
bones sketch just to start off and
we’re gonna create it on our desktop,
or in our Downloads folder or
Documents folder, whatever.
I’m going to go to my
desktop in my terminal.
And then I’m going to start by installing
the command line globally with the command
line tool.
So it’s npm install canvas-sketch-cli,
make sure the cli is there.
And then --global and
this might take a couple minutes.
And so once it's installed,
or as it's installing,
you can create a new
folder on your desktop.
Let's just call this webgl,
we can just call it webgl for now.
And then we're gonna cd into webgl and
so now we're inside this folder.
And we're gonna just start
with a simple three js scene.
Three js setup.
So we're gonna write canvas-sketch because
now that we've installed it globally,
we should be able to just run it.
And we're gonna say, canvas-sketch and
let's call it our files sketch.js.
So the first argument here is
the file name that we wanna edit and
then we're gonna pass in
these arguments here.
We're going to say --new space and
then --template = 3.
And so this is the command that we can
use to scaffold out a new three js.
Project or new three demo or
artwork or whatever you're building
the --new is going to create a new
file in the --template is going
to use the three js template
instead of the default 2D template.
And so if it runs correctly,
you should have this kind of a message and
you should be able to open this link or
open local host 9966 in your browser.
And actually see a 3D object of some kind.